SCREENS/COMPONENTS
------------------


CHAT

Overview: The chat will display the user input, generated via the prompt.
The chat honors the iterative mode / sequential mode node context.
The chat will include: header, vertical scrolling bar, view button and text.
The top left header indicates the name of the node image which is currently being worked on. Else,
If no nodes exist chat will only display the message "Nothing to display". Else,
At the top right corner is the view button.
If view mode is off(untoggled), then only text will show.
If view mode is on for sequential context, a plus sign will show in front of the text, and at the end,
the name of the refence node where it came from.
If view mode is on for iterative context a plus sign will show in front of the text, and at the end,
the name of the refence child node that is being created.


Finally, completely at the right side the vertical scrolling bar.



PROMPT

Overview: The prompt will allow the user to add files and type input.
The prompt will include: a hold button, add button, input field, send button, header.
The header will be the name of the current node at the top right corner.
The send button at the bottom right.
To the bottom left the add button.
In the bottom middle the input field with the word "Type..." as placeholder. If the field contains,
attached files, they will be separated by a horizontal divisor line, and be underneath it. 
Additionaly, while the field contains 
the added files, a hold button will show below the add button until they are removed.
The added files will appear in pills with and X button at the right to remove.
The hold button will allow the attached files to remain as input after each send succesion.
The hold button will change color when activated.

CARD

SIMPLE CARD

Overview: Holds node

ENHANCED CARD

Overview: Holds node with other details.
The card includes: a header, a node, lock button, share button, details button, delete button, frame.
The frame will hold the node, and the buttons.
The buttons will be below the node.
The lock button, share button, details button will be together on the bottom left.
The details button will pop-up the details pane.
The share button will pop-up the social media pane.
The context lock button can switch between opened and closed icon.
The delete button will be on the bottom right. It will pop-up the deletion pane.
A click on the node will always trigger image enlargement to full app size. To exit
click outside the image.
The header will be above(outside) the cards frame.


POP-UPS

DELETE

The pane will contain a warning icon with the "Attention" word.
An X button in the top right corner.
The phrase below will state "The node marked for deletion has been detected to contain one or more childs."
At the bottom will be a delete button on the left and a cancel on the right.
If the delete button is clicked all screens/components will refresh to reflect proper current node. The node 
to be refreshed is the next parent node.


DETAILS

An X button in the top right corner.
Will contain the node name, date of creation, text used for creation, reference files names if any
number of child nodes.
At the bottom a copy to clipboard button.


VIEWS

Overview: Slideshow and traversal of the node workflow.

The sequential and iterative view include: change button, mode button, show button
The buttons will be aligned at the top right corner in the same order as stated.

The show button when clicked will display below the view an horizontal separator.
Below it on the top right corner will be a toggle button.
On the far right a vertical scroll bar.
In between will be the simple card of uploaded files and reference nodes.
Below the card will be the name of the node.
If the toggle button is clicked it will change the card color only for uploaded files.
The mode button will change accordingly to the selected node context.

VIEW SEQUENTIAL

The view sequential will additionaly include: header, slide arrows.
The header will be at the top left corner with the name of the current node.

The slideshow will be in the mid section, with as many enhanced cards as allowed by the screensize
will be next to each other in a hhorizontal line. 
Above each card it's name. Completely at the right side the slide arrows.

The slide arrows are four arrows aligned in a diamond shape. The up and down arrows
are clompletely opaqued. while the left and right arrows traverse the branch,
which in this case means a direct parent/child relationship.

Any current node which is being built, is considered the last node of the branch
and therefore will be unlocked. If locked, no further down nodes can be built on 
that branch.
Any prior node which was worked will be locked.
If a locked node is unlocked it will be considered in a blank iterative context,
meaning, it is now in an iterative context, but no new child nodes have yet been built.
A node can revert to sequential(become locked again) if no further nodes
 were built in iterative context, 
meaning, it remained in a blank iterative context.
The parents node lock and the mode button are therefore dependant and tied to
change together.

VIEW ITERATIVE

The view iterative will additionaly contain: enhanced card, slide arrows.

The slideshow will be in the mid section, with an enhanced card of the working node(parent)
on the left, followed by a vertical line separating child nodes. Color follows hthe sibling
node, if multiple when sliding.

The slide arrows are four arrows aligned in a diamond shape. The up and down arrows
traverse parent and child nodes. The child node traversed will be the one active.
The left and right arrows traverse siblings from the same level. 

On each iteration, a new child represents a new branch.
If the working node (parent node) is locked, no further child nodes can be made.
Working node can only change to sequential context if containing one child; if it does,
it becomes a locked node.
Any new child nodes will be considered unlocked.

VIEW ALL

The view all will additionaly contain: a search bar, vertical scroll bar

At the top left corner a search bar with a palcehholder for "Search ..."
Below it as many enhanced cards the screen can fit ordered as in a grid.
The search can be done referencing any of cards details.


NODE MAP
 
Overview: N tree map view of the nodes. 
The node map will include: header, zoom in button, zoom out button, 
zoom percentage, vertical scroll bar, tree map.
The hheader is at the top left corner wihth the name of the current node.
The zoom button group will be in the right top corner, in the following order:
minus button, percentage number, plus button.
Below that containing the rest of the space is the map, and at the very right the vertical
scroll bar.
Each node in the map is slectable via click to change the app context.


ICON LIST
locked button
unlocked button
share button
details button
delete button
slide arrows
send button
attach button
hold button
close button

FLOWS

Overview: Flows that have been identified.